- When you're first starting out
an internship is a great way to gain
some real world experience
and get your foot in the door at a company.
Internships are short term work experiences
offered by companies for individuals
to get entry level exposure
to a particular field.
Often, summertime is a popular season for internships,
because most students are on break.
Internships come in all shapes and sizes.
In some cases you'll be placed in an existing team
where you'll work alongside seasoned developers.
Other times companies will place all of the interns
on the same team and assign them a project.
Or you might enter into a rotational program
where you get to try out a few positions.
Some internships will be paid
while others may be unpaid.
In both cases, there's the potential
for an internship to lead to a job offer.
Many colleges and universities
will have established career programs
that help students find internships
which you should take advantage of if you're enrolled.
I recommend that you start early
and pursue an internship each year.
It will provide you with an opportunity
to gain real world experience in the field each summer,
and can help you build up both your technical skills
and your interpersonal skills.
Having multiple internships on your resume
will make you stand out amongst other job candidates.
And you'll have more to talk about
when interviewing for a position.
This approach also helps you build
a network of professionals in the field
who might open the door
for your first full-time position.
Often companies limit their internship programs
to undergrads or recent graduates.
So if you're self taught or attending a bootcamp
you may need to take a different approach
to get an internship.
You may find some internships
that don't have this requirement,
which present you with an opportunity
to gain some experience.
There's also some great opportunities with nonprofits
which you might consider where you donate some of your time
for on the job experience.
Wherever you land, just make sure
that it's a reputable company
and stay on the lookout for any warning signs
that might indicate you're being taken advantage of
as unfortunately, this can happen.
Internships have the potential to lead to job offers.
In my experience, companies look to hire interns
that demonstrate leadership potential
and strong problem solving skills.
So throughout your internship
always look for opportunities
to contribute to the team
or to tackle the tough problems.
It will help you get the most from the experience
and might lead to your first job.